<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1502_100_T48_60113111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1502.100</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Chief of the Contracting Office (CCO)</i> means the Office of Acquisition Management Division Directors at Headquarters, Research Triangle Park and Cincinnati. For purposes of ratification authority only, CCO also includes Regional Acquisition Managers. (See 1501.602-3(b)(3) for the criteria for this ratification authority).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Commercial supplier agreements (CSAs)</i> mean terms and conditions customarily offered to the public by vendors of supplies or services that meet the definition of “commercial item” set forth in FAR 2.101 and intended to create a binding legal obligation on the end user. CSAs are common in information technology acquisitions, including acquisitions of commercial computer software and commercial technical data, and they may apply to any supply or service. CSAs may apply regardless of the format or style of the document (for example, a CSA may be styled as <i>standard terms of sale or lease, Terms of Service</i> (TOS), <i>End User License Agreement</i> (EULA), or another similar legal instrument or agreement, and may be presented as part of a proposal or quotation responding to a solicitation for a contract or order). CSAs may also apply regardless of the media or delivery mechanism used (for example, a CSA may be presented as one or more paper documents, or may appear on a computer or other electronic device screen during a purchase, software installation, product delivery, registration for a service, or other transaction).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Head of the Contracting Activity (HCA)</i> means the Director, Office of Acquisition Management. 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Senior Procurement Executive (SPE)</i> means the Director, Office of Acquisition Management.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
