<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1552_312_4_T48_601838211">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1552.312-4</ph> Contract terms and conditions - commercial items (far deviation).</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 1512.1070, the contracting officer shall insert clause 1552.332-39, <i>Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Items</i> (FAR DEVIATION), for acquisitions of commercial items in lieu of 52.212-4 or 52.212-4 Alternate I. The contracting officer may tailor this clause in accordance with FAR 12.302.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Contract Terms and Conditions - Commercial Items (FAR Deviation) (OCT 2021)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Inspection/acceptance.</i> The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its post-acceptance rights - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) Within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Assignment.</i> The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the <i>Assignment of Claims Act</i> (31 U.S.C. 3727). However, when a third party makes payment (<i>e.g.,</i> use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Changes.</i> Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Disputes.</i> This contract is subject to 41 U.S.C. chapter 71, <i>Contract Disputes</i>. Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.233-1, <i>Disputes,</i> which is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Definitions.</i> The clause at FAR 52.202-1, <i>Definitions,</i> is incorporated herein by reference.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Excusable delays.</i> The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence.
</p>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Invoice.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) Name and address of the Contractor;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Invoice date and number;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Contract number, line item number and, if applicable, the order number;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, <i>Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer - System for Award Management,</i> or 52.232-34, <i>Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer - Other Than System for Award Management</i>), or applicable agency procedures.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the <i>Prompt Payment Act</i> (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(h) <i>Patent indemnity.</i> The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings.
</p>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			<i>Payment</i> - (1) <i>Items accepted.</i> Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set forth in this contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(2) <i>Prompt payment.</i> The Government will make payment in accordance with the <i>Prompt Payment Act</i> (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(3) <i>Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT).</i> If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(4) <i>Discount.</i> In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(5) <i>Overpayments.</i> If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment);
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(C) Affected line item or subline item, if applicable; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(D) Contractor point of contact.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List3">(6) <i>Interest.</i> (i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in 41 U.S.C. 7109, which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(iii) Final decisions: The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by 33.211 if - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within 30 days;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see 32.607-2).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(A) The date fixed under this contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract debt; or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in 32.608-2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(j) <i>Risk of loss.</i> Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(k) <i>Taxes.</i> The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(l) <i>Termination for the Government's convenience.</i> The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor's records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(m) <i>Termination for cause.</i> The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(n) <i>Title.</i> Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(o) <i>Warranty.</i> The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(p) <i>Limitation of liability.</i> Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(q) <i>Other compliances.</i> The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(r) <i>Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts.</i> The Contractor agrees to comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352 relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts; 18 U.S.C. 431 relating to officials not to benefit; 40 U.S.C. chapter 37, <i>Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards;</i> 41 U.S.C. chapter 87, <i>Kickbacks;</i> 41 U.S.C. 4712 and 10 U.S.C. 2409 relating to whistleblower protections; 49 U.S.C. 40118, <i>Fly American;</i> and 41 U.S.C. chapter 21 relating to procurement integrity.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(s) <i>Order of precedence.</i> Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) The schedule of supplies/services.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) The <i>Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts, Unauthorized Obligations,</i> and <i>Commercial Supplier Agreements-Unenforceable Clauses</i> paragraphs of this clause.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) The clause at 52.212-5.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) Addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any commercial supplier agreements as amended by the <i>Commercial Supplier Agreements - Unenforceable Clauses</i> provision.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(5) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(6) Other paragraphs of this clause.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(7) The Standard Form 1449.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(8) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(9) The specification.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(t) [Reserved]
</p>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(u) <i>Unauthorized Obligations.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Except as stated in paragraph (u)(2) of this clause, when any supply or service acquired under this contract is subject to any commercial supplier agreement (as defined in 1502.100) that includes any language, provision, or clause requiring the Government to pay any future fees, penalties, interest, legal costs or to indemnify the Contractor or any person or entity for damages, costs, fees, or any other loss or liability that would create an <i>Anti-Deficiency Act</i> violation (31 U.S.C. 1341), the following shall govern:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) Any such language, provision, or clause is unenforceable against the Government.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Neither the Government nor any Government authorized end user shall be deemed to have agreed to such clause by virtue of it appearing in the commercial supplier agreement. If the commercial supplier agreement is invoked through an “I agree” click box or other comparable mechanism (<i>e.g.,</i> “click-wrap” or “browse-wrap” agreements), execution does not bind the Government or any Government authorized end user to such clause.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Any such language, provision, or clause is deemed to be stricken from the commercial supplier agreement.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) Paragraph (u)(1) of this clause does not apply to indemnification or any other payment by the Government that is expressly authorized by statute and specifically authorized under applicable agency regulations and procedures.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(v) <i>Incorporation by reference.</i> The Contractor's representations and certifications, including those completed electronically via the <i>System for Award Management</i> (SAM), are incorporated by reference into the contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(w) <i>Commercial Supplier Agreements - unenforceable clauses.</i> When any supply or service acquired under this contract is subject to a <i>Commercial Supplier Agreement</i> (as defined in 48 CFR 1502.100), the following language shall be deemed incorporated into the commercial supplier agreement. As used herein, “this agreement” means the Commercial Supplier Agreement:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this agreement, when the end user is an agency or instrumentality of the U.S. Government, the following shall apply:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) <i>Applicability.</i> This agreement is a part of a contract between the commercial supplier and the U.S. Government for the acquisition of the supply or service that necessitates a license or other similar legal instrument (including all contracts, task orders, and delivery orders under FAR Part 12).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) <i>End user.</i> This agreement shall bind the ordering activity as end user but shall not operate to bind a Government employee or person acting on behalf of the Government in his or her personal capacity.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iii) <i>Law and disputes.</i> This agreement is governed by Federal law.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(A) Any language purporting to subject the U.S. Government to the laws of a U.S. state, U.S. territory, district, or municipality, or a foreign nation, except where Federal law expressly provides for the application of such laws, is hereby deleted.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(B) Any language requiring dispute resolution in a specific forum or venue that is different from that prescribed by applicable Federal law is hereby deleted.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(C) Any language prescribing a different time period for bringing an action than that prescribed by applicable Federal law in relation to a dispute is hereby deleted.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iv) <i>Continued performance.</i> The supplier or licensor shall not unilaterally revoke, terminate or suspend any rights granted to the Government except as allowed by this contract. If the supplier or licensor believes the ordering activity to be in breach of the agreement, it shall pursue its rights under the Contract Disputes Act or other applicable Federal statute while continuing performance as set forth in paragraph (d) of this clause.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(v) <i>Arbitration; equitable or injunctive relief.</i> In the event of a claim or dispute arising under or relating to this agreement, a binding arbitration shall not be used unless specifically authorized by agency guidance, and equitable or injunctive relief, including the award of attorney fees, costs or interest, may be awarded against the U.S. Government only when explicitly provided by statute (<i>e.g., Prompt Payment Act</i> or <i>Equal Access to Justice Act</i>).
</p>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List3">(vi) <i>Updating terms.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(A) 
			After award, the contractor may unilaterally revise terms if they are not material. A material change is defined as:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(1) Terms that change Government rights or obligations;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(2) Terms that increase Government prices;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(3) Terms that decrease overall level of service; or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(4) Terms that limit any other Government right addressed elsewhere in this contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(B) For revisions that will materially change the terms of the contract, the revised commercial supplier agreement must be incorporated into the contract using a bilateral modification.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(C) Any agreement terms or conditions unilaterally revised subsequent to award that are inconsistent with any material term or provision of this contract shall not be enforceable against the Government, and the Government shall not be deemed to have consented to them.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(vii) <i>No automatic renewals.</i> If any license or service tied to periodic payment is provided under this agreement (<i>e.g.,</i> annual software maintenance or annual lease term), such license or service shall not renew automatically upon expiration of its current term without prior express consent by an authorized Government representative.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(viii) <i>Indemnification.</i> Any clause of this agreement requiring the commercial supplier or licensor to defend or indemnify the end user is hereby amended to provide that the U.S. Department of Justice has the sole right to represent the United States in any such action, in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 516.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ix) <i>Audits.</i> Any clause of this agreement permitting the commercial supplier or licensor to audit the end user's compliance with this agreement is hereby amended as follows:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(A) Discrepancies found in an audit may result in a charge by the commercial supplier or licensor to the ordering activity. Any resulting invoice must comply with the proper invoicing requirements specified in the underlying Government contract or order.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(B) This charge, if disputed by the ordering activity, will be resolved in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause; no payment obligation shall arise on the part of the ordering activity until the conclusion of the dispute process.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(C) Any audit requested by the contractor will be performed at the contractor's expense, without reimbursement by the Government.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(x) <i>Taxes or surcharges.</i> Any taxes or surcharges which the commercial supplier or licensor seeks to pass along to the Government as end user will be governed by the terms of the underlying Government contract or order and, in any event, must be submitted to the Contracting Officer for a determination of applicability prior to invoicing unless specifically agreed to otherwise in the Government contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(xi) <i>Non-assignment.</i> This agreement may not be assigned, nor may any rights or obligations thereunder be delegated, without the Government's prior approval, except as expressly permitted under paragraph (b) of this clause.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(xii) <i>Confidential information.</i> If this agreement includes a confidentiality clause, such clause is hereby amended to state that neither the agreement nor the contract price list, as applicable, shall be deemed “confidential information.” Issues regarding release of “unit pricing” will be resolved consistent with the Freedom of Information Act. Notwithstanding anything in this agreement to the contrary, the Government may retain any confidential information as required by law, regulation or its internal document retention procedures for legal, regulatory or compliance purposes; provided, however, that all such retained confidential information will continue to be subject to the confidentiality obligations of this agreement.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) If any language, provision, or clause of this agreement conflicts or is inconsistent with paragraph (w)(1) of this clause, the language, provisions, or clause of paragraph (w)(1) shall prevail to the extent of such inconsistency.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
