<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1517_208_T48_601316113">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1517.208</ph> Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contracting Officer shall insert the provision at 48 CFR 1552.217-70, Evaluation of Contract Options, in solicitations containing options.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.217-71, Option to Extend the Term of the Contract - Cost-Type Contract, when applicable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.217-72, Option to Extend the Term of the Contract - Cost-Plus-Award-Fee Contract, when applicable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.217-73, Option for Increased Quantity - Cost-Type Contract, when applicable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.217-74, Option for Increased Quantity - Cost-Plus-Award-Fee Contract, when applicable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.217-75, Option to Extend the Effective Period of the Contract - Time and Materials or Labor Hour Contract, when applicable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.217-76, Option to Extend the Effective Period of the Contract - Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity Contract, when applicable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(h) The Contracting officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR 1552.217-77, Option to Extend the Term of the Contract - Fixed Price, when applicable.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
